Alright! In this video, we are going to
take a look at using the patch method.
And remember, in a RESTful API, patch is an
operation to partially update a resource.
And to be honest, looking at a patch
is not used that much. There are cases
where it is useful, and the standard
around it is kind of a little bit
nebulous too, so it's not very common. But,
I thought I demonstrate how to setup a
patch method in this example here, and that
there is a number of different am and I'm
using air quotes standards around the
patch method, and a number of different
opinions out there. In use, I don't see
patch implemented that often, but it is
an option for RESTful interfaces. I'm
going to show you in this video how to
set it up using the WebFlux client, the
stack inside of Spring Framework. So,
let's go ahead and and do that. Now, I
have the CategoryControllerTest up. We
are going to implement a patch method
for the CategoryController. And what I'm
going to do is I'm going to take this
update because it was so similar. I'm
going to copy that over.
And now, let's go ahead and change this
name to patch.
And we are going to make this do a patch
against that URL.
And so, we have this Category that we are
going to go ahead and do a patch
against, and I'm looking at this. This is
fine for the test here. Now, let's go over
to the CategoryCcontroller, and actually,
implement this method. So, I'm just going to
grab this guy again because they are
very similar.
And change this to PatchMapping.
Just going to take that in, and we want
to do patch for
for the method name. And in this case,
I'm going to pause the video and write a
little bit of code here and then come
back to it because it's some typing I
need to do and I don't drag you guys
along with that. So, I'm pausing this, and
jumped ahead just a touch and revise
some of code here. And let me step
through what's going on here. And first
off, I am doing everything inside the
controller, and as you've seen me through
do throughout the entire course, I've
been using a service layer, when I
started implementing business logic. I'm
putting a little bit of business logic
and the controller here. Normally, I would
refactor the center service layer to
keep the controllers very clean. But
in the this example, just as a learning
example, I'm going to include this into
the controller code for now. So, what I'm
doing there on line 48, I'm going out and
finding the categoryById, and then, on
line 50, I'm implementing some business
logic to say if the description is
different to go ahead and update it. And
you can see on line 52, I'm returning
that. Otherwise, I just return back the
found category. And obviously, in a patch
operation, this is going to be highly
customized and highly changing depending
on your particular use case. So, there's a
number of different ways we can
implement this. Depending on the
complexity of the object that we have,
obviously, this logic would need to grow
to detect the changes. JPA does have a
merge method, as well, that we could
utilize to detect changes. It can be a
little flaky from use because
sometimes it does not quite behave as
you would expect it to. And I've used it
in the past, and often, what's going to
happen, the merge is going to be a little
flaky and you'll wind up ultimately in
implementing your own business logic to
explicitly detect changes in properties
and bring those properties over. The
biggest problem is handling null values
when to go ahead and determine that up
to apply a null, if that value wasn't
sent, or if it's actually null. So, that
can get a little bit tricky, when you're
implementing that logic. But here, let's
go ahead and continue through this
example. So, I've set up the patch. We are
doing a PatchMapping against the api/v1/categories URL and we're extracting out
the ID. The logic is would go out and get
a foundCategory. The
description is different. We are going to go
ahead and update it, and then, return it.
Now, on line 55, I'm going to return back
to a Mono of just the foundCategory
because in this example, my object didn't
change. I'm just going to return it
back. So, perfectly fine business logic
for a patch operation. And like I said, if
that object is more complex, obviously,
your business logic here is going to be
quite a bit different. Now, let's go ahead
and run the test here.
And I expect this is going to go kaboom
because we do need to not implement a
couple things. But I do want to show you
what an error in this reactor stack. You
can see that I'm getting a 500 error, an
internal server error, which is not what
we wanted. If I come up here, we can
see that I'm getting a null pointer error.
Let's take a closer look at that. We can
click on that and it dives in. It tells
me, on line 48, that I'm getting an NPE.
And why is that? Effectively, what's
happening here is I didn't implement the
Mockito Mock for this. So, it's returning
back a null, and then, I call a block
method on a null object, and that's
why I'm getting that NPE because this guy
right here is causing the NPE, because
that method is returning back null, and
then kaboom. So, let's go ahead and
implement that.
And what I need to do, come up here to my
testPatch.
Given.
Now, we want to do findById and we can
do anyString.
And that should be sufficient for my
method. Since I didn't go ahead and do
that.
And we can see that by setting that, that
should cause the logic to go through and
also execute that. So, let's go ahead and
run that.
And we can see that the test does pass
now. And now here, on this test here, I
want to make sure that, that save is
actually running, and what I can do is
come in here and do a verify a categoryRepository
.save and we'll just say any,
and that's going to require that to
actually run. So, let's go ahead and run
this now.
So, that's going to say that, hey I
actually need to run at least once. So,
that's going to verify that, and we can
actually take this it a little bit
step further, and we clean this up a
little bit. I can actually get rid of
this, and just do a static import of it.
So, we can also import him.
So, this a little bit cleaner. So now, you
can see that our test code looks a
little bit cleaner so we can do a given
willReturn and then a verify down here
at the bottom. So, that has to come after
this run, so let's go ahead and run that.
Make sure that's still running.
And now, this is happy and you can see
that also now IntelliJ went through and
refactor the static imports. So now, our test
does look a little bit cleaner.
So, trying to give you some tips with
Mockito,
as we move along here. So, just a nice
option here, and actually, let's see if we
can actually break this.
Cut this out right here. So, pass in a
null, because I remember right, we're
sending in a null object, so it should
not matter right now. Expect us to fail,
which it did because that interaction
did not happen. Because what happened
there, by setting up this test here, now
this failed like that. So actually,
let's go ahead and when we actually want
to do is something like this.
So that get rid of that, and say with
changes in here
I'm going to come in, and this save here, we
want to add in a description.
A little quick refactoring there on the
fly. And now, we're setting a new
description and we expect this to run
once.
Run this.
So, we run that. I changed the name of the
test that's why IntelliJ didn't see it.
So are save did not invoked.
I'm going to pause this. Look at a little
closer.
And I see my problem. I updated the
wrong one. So, what we want to do is the
one that we're passing in,
so that was my mistake there. Easy
enough mistake to make. Now, let's go
ahead and run this and this should run as
expected.
And that is good. Now here, we are using
the verify save method. So, we are
verifying that does get invoked. But over
here, what we want to make sure is that
it does not get invoked. So, let's go
ahead and test that. And what I can do is
just come in here paste this. And now, in
Mockito, I can pass in the number of
interactions I want to verify. I can say
never, and bring that in static method
never. And let's go ahead and run this.
See that runs okay. Let's go ahead and
run all the tests in this class.
Everything runs successfully here. So,
showed you a few more things with
Mockito here. So, I'm really enjoying the
behavior-driven development stuff inside
of Mockito, so it's actually really
cool.
By bringing in the static imports here,
you can see how the tests really are
looking a lot cleaner, and I really like
how Mockito has implemented this stuff.